post: ipfs camp deep dives (#277)
ipfs/blog: content/post/053-great-calamity-circumvention-assembly-at-ipfs-camp.md

---
date: 2019-08-01
url: 2019-08-01-great-calamity-circumvention-assembly-at-ipfs-camp
tags: IPFS, IPFS Camp
title: The Great Calamity Circumvention Assembly at IPFS Camp 2019
author: Alan Shaw
---

> 

Reviewer: What about including @alanshaw's PR comment (say, in italics) at the beginning of this post?

In 2019, the intergalactic dweb uprising began. The pillars of what had become the foundations of human civilisation started to crack under their own weight and a new empire was emerging from the shadows. An empire forged in the flames of discontent of central servers and "do-no-evil" monopoly. Peer to peer communications - the heart of the dweb - slowly formed efficient and autonomous gorilla networks that expanded beyond the reach of the blue planet and far into the galaxy, the likes of which the old world order had never seen before.

The uprising began modestly as a "space camp" in the ALPHA region 5P4-1N. From fear of ambush the exact coordinates were only divulged to the heroes that enlisted. What happened at that camp laid the foundations for the world as we know it today, but between then and now, many battles took place and we will forever honour the unbeknown dragon slayers that emerged from camp to lead the uprising and shape our new world.

> This story attempts to recount a small part of camp, what was referred to back then as "Deep Dives" but what we later came to know as The Great Calamity Circumvention Assembly.

Reviewer 2: > The Great Calamity Circumvention Assembly

The greatest assembly never invented!

---
date: 2019-08-01
url: 2019-08-01-great-calamity-circumvention-assembly-at-ipfs-camp
tags: IPFS, IPFS Camp
title: The Great Calamity Circumvention Assembly at IPFS Camp 2019
author: Alan Shaw
---

> This is the story of the Deep Dive sessions at IPFS Camp 2019 as told from the perspective of a DWeb historical researcher in the far future.

> In 2019, the intergalactic dweb uprising began. The pillars of what had become the foundations of human civilisation started to crack under their own weight and a new empire was emerging from the shadows. An empire forged in the flames of discontent of central servers and "do-no-evil" monopoly. Peer to peer communications - the heart of the dweb - slowly formed efficient and autonomous gorilla networks that expanded beyond the reach of the blue planet and far into the galaxy, the likes of which the old world order had never seen before.

Reviewer 3: Typo: guerrilla networks?  Unless the spelling changes in the future, otherwise doubleplusgood, etc.

Author: bahahaha no I meant 🦍 🤣

> In 2019, the intergalactic dweb uprising began. The pillars of what had become the foundations of human civilisation started to crack under their own weight and a new empire was emerging from the shadows. An empire forged in the flames of discontent of central servers and "do-no-evil" monopoly. Peer to peer communications - the heart of the dweb - slowly formed efficient and autonomous guerrilla networks that expanded beyond the reach of the blue planet and far into the galaxy, the likes of which the old world order had never seen before.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In 2019, the intergalactic dweb uprising began. The pillars of what had become the foundations of human civilisation started to crack under their own weight and the very beginnings of a new empire began emerging from the shadows. An empire forged in the flames of discontent of central servers and "do-no-evil" monopoly. Peer to peer communications - the heart of the dweb - slowly formed efficient and autonomous networks that expanded beyond the reach of the blue planet and far into the galaxy, the likes of which the old world order had never seen before.
```
"guerilla" has some unfortunate connotations. While I like the "rebel alliance" reference, I want to avoid some of the other synonyms and the sentence works fine without any fighter allusion.

| [Design Patterns for DWeb Apps](https://github.com/ipfs/camp/blob/master/DEEP_DIVES/48-design-patterns-for-dweb-apps.md) | <a href="https://github.com/leshokunin"><img src="https://github.com/leshokunin.png?size=200" alt="leshokunin" width="100" /></a> | Most IPFS apps have UX issues. We will pick a feature of an existing app, and improve its UX by simplifying how to interact with it, how it works. Textile.io lowered the permission and roles system from ~15 methods to 2 this way! | [Video](https://youtu.be/w07JvGVeHpM) |
| [IPFS and Guix 📦](https://github.com/ipfs/camp/blob/master/DEEP_DIVES/49-ipfs-and-guix.md) | <a href="https://github.com/ambrevar"><img src="https://github.com/ambrevar.png?size=200" alt="ambrevar" width="100" /></a> | Exploration into existing or potential issues with integrating IPFS with Guix | [Video](https://youtu.be/ZvJYYZ1aEDU) |

## There are more to come, keep posted!

More content from IPFS Camp is being salvaged and transcoded.

If you are interested in receiving an update when the next batch of videos are available, you can do this in one of the following ways:

> - Watch and Star the [ipfs/camp repo](https://github.com/ipfs/camp/blob/master/README.md), where all the content will live ad-eternum.

Reviewer 4: technically, the github camp repo is a centralized service also susceptible to the Global Electromagnetic Fire Disaster of 2027 - maybe worth saying they will live there in addition to more permanent backup locations?
